# Kriti Studio

Kriti Studio is a web-only, no code, drag and drop builder which
allow you to design your sites however you see fit. Its your brand after all.

## Data, Collections & Records

### Data

Or Excel file which contains all the listings/records which will be served by the directory.

### Collections

Or worksheets in excel file, are collection of records. E.g. if the directory is about "Job Listings"
then the collection would "jobs". It is expected that minimum 2 collections are present.

1. __ _collections__: This is "reserved" worksheet/collection which contains metadata for the directory.
Every directory can host multiple collections. E.g. For Job Listings directory, there can be "jobs" and "companies"
as different collections. This worksheet named as "_collections" contains all the collections served by the directory.

Required columns:
a. `id`: Number. Unique serial ID for every row in the worksheet
b. `collection`: Text. Unique, name of other worksheets which are collections served by the directory

Optional columns:
a. `slug`: Text. Unique, URL slug for this collection. For "job" collection if the slug is "jobs" then
all the records/listings under this collection would have URL `domain/jobs/{job-id}`.
If not provided then a slug is autogenerated based on worksheet name.

You can other columns too.

2. Your collections: This is the actual collections which are served by the directory e.g. "jobs" or "companies".
Each collection has its own worksheet with unique name (no special characters except underscore). Name of this worksheet
is added under `collection` column in `_collections` worksheet, effectively registering this collection.

Required columns:
a. `id`: Number. Unique serial ID for every row in the worksheet
b. `title`: Text. Unqiue, title of every record/listing in this collection

Optional columns:
a. `slug`: Text. Unique, URL slug for this record/listing. For a particular job under jobs collection, if the slug is "job-123",
then the URL for that webpage would be `domain/jobs/job-123`. No special characters except hyphens.

You can have other columns like image, URLs, description. Upto you.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRaTygCZZHfZAaIhxocsG7UC8mWHQj0iwdM62NG6JzPPI3OLJsybaxeU2VSCuF8ZzQ-_lOTlWRY8a6g/pubhtml?widget=true&amp;headers=false"></iframe>

## Importing data

Before you begin you need to import all data (listings). This data affects pages created and dynamic data that can be populated.

For every new project, importing data is required step you cannot proceed to designing without it.
For subsequent design or to update data in future, go over to data tab and import again, check this video for demo.

This video demonstrates, initial import when project is newly created. The imported excel only cantains one worksheet "pages" (slug "/pages2").
Later new worksheet is imported with 2 worksheets "pages" (slug "/pages") & "search_engines" (slug "/se") from the Data tab.

<video controls width="80%">
  <source src="/assets/docs/import-data.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

After importing, the Data tab shows available variables for the imported collection.

## How to design

To begin, start by opening the elements pane from right side and drag any element on to the canvas.

__Demo:__ Adding a H1 (header 1) element

<video controls width="80%">
  <source src="/assets/docs/drag-drop-elems.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

__Demo 2:__ Adding an IMG (image) element
Certain elments require additional data to be displayed. E.g. Image or Link which require to you add src attributes.

<video controls width="80%">
  <source src="/assets/docs/drag-drop-img.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>


## Element types: static vs dynamic

Content can be either of
1. Static: Always constant no matter what, imagine static text on webpage.
2. Dynamic: Depends on webpage's slug, imagine text or an image which changes based on each record's page.

### Adding static elements

Its rather easy just drag and drop any element on to canvas. Its static by default.

### Adding dynamic elements

Drag any element onto canvas. Depending on element type you'll have to add dynamic content.

__For text types__, edit the text and add text in following format `{{ record "<column name>" }}`.
Here `<column name>` is column name from the spreadhseet.
Or better yet, just copy the column from Data tab.

Demo:

<video controls width="80%">
  <source src="/assets/docs/dynamic-text.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

__For image or link__, Images and link require extra information to work. This fields
are available under Styles tab. Process is still the same, add `{{ record "<column name> }}` or
copy column from Data tab.

Demo:

<video controls width="80%">
  <source src="/assets/docs/dynamic-img.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>
